The fine and delicate judgment given by Mercury in Libra is at once its virtue and its vice, for in practical matters rough-and-ready decision is often of more value than accuracy, and the insistence on the latter which this position gives, if exaggerated, means hesitation, vacillation and delay. There is generally a quick intuitive flash of conviction followed by the attempt to weigh the decision logically, which is often dangerous. The better policy would be to train the mind to follow its intuitions. It is the old story of the ass who starved between two thistles because he could not decide which he would eat first. In matters where mind is the sole consideration, however, Libra is as good a sign as can be found for Mercury. The Venusian nature softens the metallic coldness of the mercurial nature, and Saturn being exalted in Libra, there is an added element of wisdom which pure reason lacks.The real drawback is in the airy nature of the sign, which may give a certain looseness and even frivolity to the Dis- position of the mind. There is usually great ambition for intellectual accomplishments, but little inclination to labour to attain them. The mind easily becomes distracted; sometimes we may find the native 'Jack of all trades, and master of none," as the saying goes.

Such people, too, have the defect common to the open mind; they form an opinion after long and careful study, and yet may abandon it at a moment's notice on quite inadequate grounds. The sensitive balance of the mind makes it very difficult to speak positively about such people without the fullest study of the whole horoscope. With this position we find the most varied accomplishments. Great mystics and artists like Coleridge, great lexicographers like Sir Richard Quain, great statesmen like Kruger, great lawyers like Lord Brougham, great theologians like Savonarola, great scholars like Erasmus, great philosophers like Cornelius Agrippa, great rulers like Queen Elizabeth I, great actresses like Lillie Langtry, great courtesans like Cleo de Merodeall come under this position. One cannot tell merely from the position itself along what lines the mind may move, or even how it will work, as Mercury in this sign is more sensitive and pliable than in any other.

The position may however be called good. It is rare to find a thoroughly incompetent mentality with Mercury in this sign; such an event is unlikely to occur unless there be serious affliction. Unless however there are some good aspects to strengthen Mercury, the mind is likely to be shallow.
