The steady glow ofLeo has an altogether admirable effect on the shy, silvery Mercury. As "the adolescent" among the planets, the solar influence is just what he needs "to make a man of him." In other language, it may be said that this position adds heart to brain; and brain without heart is the essence of all mischief-the intellectuality of Mephistopheles. There are of course certain dangers, notably a tendency to pride and anger, sometimes to bombast and boastfulness. Ambition too is a common quality, but ambition is a virtue unless it is ill regulated. Since the Sun is more frequently than not in the same sign as Mercury, in this particular case it follows that, as Lord of Leo, he is generally stronger than his satellite, and this tends still further to steady him.

Taking a comprehensive view, one may affirm that this is one of the best possible
positions of Mercury. As we have noticed in dealing with other planets, it is not
always well for them to be too strongly reinforced in their own essential qualities.
Mercury in mercurial signs may prove too mercurial, just as Mars in martial signs is
often over-martial. Every planet needs balance, and the lesser planets need it more
than the greater. Accordingly, we discover this position ofMercury in the nativities of
some of the greatest of mankind. Who more admirably illustrates greatness of heart
and brain than Cardinal Gibbons in our own times? Or if we must choose a rival in
these qualities, what of Cecil Rhodes? Looking backward, we have yet greater
names, and in each case we shall note this remarkable balancing of the highest intelligence by the human touch, this harmonious union of the perceptive and the emotional qualities. This it is that colored the intellectuality of Petrarch with the ray of
love. Here, too, must we look for the condition that brought the genius of Goethe
and of Napoleon into sympathetic touch with their lesser fellows, and it is this same 1
tempering of perspicacity with the "human element" that made Lord Northcliffe the greatest journalist of his period in England.

Virgo may lend Mercury more acuteness, Aquarius more lofty passion, but Leo is the fitting place for the mental ruler of the "man of the people."
