
The Moon in Cancer is in her own house, and she is stronger in this sign than in any other of the zodiac. Its receptivity, placidity and sensuousness are in complete harmony with her nature, and the Moon being dignified in the sign also tends to make her dis- position less changeable, while the influence ofJupiter, who is exalted in the sign, takes away something of her coldness.
The senses of the native reflect with extreme accuracy the impressions presented to them. They sink into the mind and dissolve completely in it; the mind takes their mould with exquisite delicacy, but there is one drawback in that, as a rule, there is little tendency to act upon the information they received. The mind is not idle, but rather meditative. Reaction is slow and uncertain. As a rule, the native lacks the intense energy which we associate with great creative genius unless there are other indications in the horoscope, and these have to be pretty strong to overcome what may be called the contentment of the mind to remain passive. In the case ofSir Isaac Newton, we have a sextile of Mars to supply energy, and he is decidedly the most creative of the people on our list. But even in his case we observe the extreme thoroughness of reflection necessary to him before he began to give out again, in a new form, his deductions from the facts which he had absorbed. Baudelaire is another great creative genius, but his Moon is trined by Mercury, and yet this reflective quality of the mind is apparent in the extraordinary repose of such writings as the Little 1 Poems in Prose.

It follows, more or less, that the native will not go out of his way to obtain mental pabulum. This state of contentment with such impressions as come naturally to it may reveal itself as love of home and parents. There is usually a great deal of natural affection of the placid order; even the passion of love is likely to be gentle, peaceful and perhaps romantic when the Moon is in this sign. While the mind is not restless, it is very sensitive to impressions, though not at all in the way which we observed in the case of Gemini. There is no desire to acquire, merely a readiness to do so. One must be careful not to seek to upset the minds of people with this position, even for their own good. They will merely dislike you for doing so. It occasionally happens that the mind is psychic or mediumistic, but in any case the memory may be considered good. Blake is a first-rate example of the Moon in this sign at her best.
The position is not really so good for women as for men. It makes them too passive, too easily influenced by those with whom they come in contact. Nell Gwyn is a notable example of this Disposition.

The women with whom the native will come in close contact will be extremely warm-hearted and affectionate, sometimes maternal and sometimes romantic. Their affection will be enduring, and it may even be somewhat cloying. With bad aspects, the native may be seriously injured by the character of the women in his or her life. Byron, for example, with a retrograde Uranus in close conjunction with his Moon, was almost destroyed by women. It is probable, at all events, that they will be some- what conventional and exacting, demanding more from the native than he will bestow upon them.
Mothers having children with the Moon in Cancer must avoid being so devoted and conventional in their attitude toward them as to make them too selfish or too dependent on the home influences. Many boys with the Moon so placed suffer from the "CEdipus complex" and later remain bachelors, or do not marry until after the mother's death.
