
Aries is not at all sympathetic to the Moon, he being the most active, hot and fiery of the signs, and she the most passive, cold and watery of the planets. It gives great brilliancy, acuteness and susceptibility to the senses, but they are always on a terribly fine edge, so that extreme nervousness is likely to result. This may show itself in an extraordinarily quick temper, almost amounting to snappiness. Alexander VI, Henry VIII, Robespierre, Swinburne and Lord Northcliffe are all very good examples of this trait, which arose not from any fault of temper, or bad disposition in the ordinary sense, but from the intense overstrain upon them by the too-great activity of the nerves which communicated impressions.

In the case of women, where the life also is ruled by the Moon, we get an excel- lent example in George Sand. The directness and vividness of the sensations usually lead to great mental independence and activity; mental reaction takes place very rapidly.

It is very difficult for persons with this position to doubt the evidence of their
senses, and unless some other aspects tend to diminish the executive power or to
delay the operation of the judgment, the native will be so convinced as to the accuracy of whatever is presented to him that he will act immediately, without consideration. For the same reason, the native is apt to resent authority and to be disinclined
to listen to advice. There is a strong tendency to accept all ideas which are presented
to one as merely emotional and to leave them thus, as if the mind were naturally 2
attracted to Berkeleyan idealism. In consequence of this, and of the swift, almost automatic operation of action and reaction, the native is sometimes credited with originality, but this gift is often a defect, since it usually implies contradictions in thought arising from a lack of reflection and correlation of the various trains of thought. Thus, for example, we see Swinburne reading a paragraph in the newspapers about the wrongs of somebody in Russia and flashing into print with a violent son- net against the Tsar or perhaps against kings in general. In the same way, Henry VIII would dismiss a trusted minister, perhaps send him to the block, in what was little better than a fit of temper.

Such people however are generally fortunate when they are in the exercise of
professions where quick decision is everything to success, and where hesitation, how-
ever necessary to calm judgment, means failure. The position attained by Lord 1
Northcliffe in English journalism is evidently due in great measure to possession of this quality. His rashness may have led him into follies but they did not matter, because everything was forgotten in the excitement of the next moment. This quick- ness to respond to impression is obviously likely to lead to the exhibition of qualities precisely contrary to those which are described as fidelity and domesticity. Every new fancy makes its full impression at once and then passes, leaving little trace.

When the Moon is in Aries, the women in the life of the native are brilliant, passionate, headstrong and impractical. They are very often intellectual and capable of immense initiative. As a general rule, in the case of a man he will find it very difficult to control them, and for the most part his association with them will be short- lived, terminating more often than not in quarrel. Where the Moon is well aspected, they may be of the greatest use to him in his career. There is however no great promise of anything like enduring constancy on the part of the man.
We find Alexander VI, and others whom we have mentioned above, flitting from
flower to flower like butterflies. Henry V In even carried this tendency into matrimony. But in not one of these cases do we find any woman in the life who exercised a permanent influence of a truly domestic character.

Mothers having children with the Moon in Aries must strive to be practical and
avoid being too ambitious for them, allowing them to use their own judgment in
selecting their playmates and amusements, and later in life, in deciding on their own 2
career.