Sagittarius, by its keenness, seems to have the tendency to reduce the Moon to the clear, cold sparkle of a star. Almost all the femininity of her is taken away. There is no passive acquiescence in the information conveyed by the senses. The prophetic or inspirational sense is keen, more so than when the Moon is in any other sign. There is hardly any plasticity in the attitude of the native to life. The impressions are admirably focused; the picture presented to the mind is entirely without blurring, perfectly sharp and well defined. The mind has consequently to deal with clearer images than when the Moon is in any other sign, and therefore one most important element in the formation of judgment is quite perfect, and the judgment is almost praternaturally acute. We find the coldest and clearest intelligences with this position of the Moon. This fact almost leads us to think that the main cause of mental obfuscation may be original defective presentation of the Non-ego to the Ego through a fault in what one may call the lens. The student will note the extraordinary clearness and concentration of the mental vision of such men of science as Copernicus, Huxley, Alfred Russel Wallace and Davy, and of novelists like Balzac, Victor Hugo, and one may even add, Dickens. If the observation of humanity is to some extent in this last case somewhat distorted by his whimsical method of portraiture so that his creations appear like caricatures, the reason is that Neptune was in direct conjunction with the Moon. In the political world we have an excellent example of singularly clear and simple vision in the case of John Bright. The minds of people with the Moon in this sign appear to resent any confusion of issues, and are always afraid of being cheated by the introduction of facts which are foreign to the subjects under discussion. The extreme breadth of vision in Balzac may be set down to the close square ofUranus to the Moon, which enlarges the outlook and makes it more vital. In the case of the men of science mentioned above, one must note the limitation of their work. Much of the success which they obtained was due to their faculty of attending to one thing at a time. This made them in some way a little narrow and one-sided as compared with universal geniuses like Newton. To produce a man like Newton, one would have to combine a Huxley and a Hamilton. The reaction of the mind to the senses when the Moon is in this sign is extremely quick and keen, but the reflective qualities are usually not great unless developed by favorable aspects of the major planets.

Women born with this position of the Moon will have very much the same quality as they would have were Sagittarius rising.

The women who come closely into the life of the native will be of a high type- delicate, refined yet keenly passionate, and at the same time almost too ethereal to satisfy the tastes of the average man. There will also be difficulty in holding them. Gentle and timid as deer, the slightest sound alarms them and they may dash off into the depths of the woodland. They are not domestic unless from a sense of duty, but they make admirable companions, particularly in outdoor sports. The native will be able to amuse himself with them, but may find it difficult to make them practical.

Women having the Moon in this sign will attract high-minded, religious and admirable women, and seldom suffer, if at all, from their jealously or enmity, unless of course their Moon is badly aspected.

Mothers having children with the Moon in Sagittarius may give too much thought to their spiritual and mental needs at the expense of their emotional requirements. They should strive to display more affection and sympathy toward such children.
