
Libra being the house of Venus, her influence upon the Moon is to increase the aesthetic perceptions. The indications of the senses are principally valued on account of their reference to beauty, though, of course, a serious affliction of the Moon can entirely destroy tills. Jay Gould, for example, has Saturn in conjunction retrograde, and Venus square, utterly killing the Venus or beauty sense. The presence of Saturn in the sign of his exaltation obviously brings out the saturnian qualities of Libra, while the square of Venus destroys her influence therein; consequently, all that remains to Libra is the faculty of cold judgment, which of course he possessed in an extremely high degree.

The quality of balanced judgment is quite universally manifest in Libra. With the Moon in this position, the senses report to the mind with unusual accuracy, and facts are criticized with great acumen. The matter is occasionally likely to rest there, for the airiness of the sign inhibits practicality. In many cases the native remains in the contemplation of knowledge without turning it to immediate account. He builds up great ideas but finds it difficult to execute them. A fine example of the critical judgment combined with considerable esthetic perception is shown by Gladstone and Burton. Both acquired most extraordinary stores of knowledge and both put it forth in a most voluminous manner, but the great creative faculty was not equally well developed. Gladstone's writings were far inferior to his power of moving men as a speaker. Burton's writings are of a high order, but they do not possess that indescribable quality which we find in the greatest of masters. This defect is, of course, not to be wholly ascribed to the position of the Moon. Very characteristic, too, of the position, is its power to give the native a sense of what may be called unearthly beauty, as in the cases of Chopin and M~terlinck.

Of women with the Moon in Libra we have three examples: Madame Blavatsky, Marie-Antoinette and Marie Bashkirtseff In the first case the Moon is particularly strong, being the Lady of the Ascendant, and she is further dignified by a close trine ofUranus. The position in Libra indicates the keenness of her critical perception. The same power of introspection is shown by Marie Bashkirtseff, but here Mars is Lord of the Ascendant, and trining the Moon instead of Uranus as in the case of the Russian adept. The quality of her criticism of life throws an excellent light upon the distinctions between Mars and Uranus. Marie-Antoinette has the Moon extremely powerful, Cancer being the rising sign, but afflicted by a close square of Saturn. In this case, one may consider the influence of Libra, which is on the cusp of the 5th House, unusually strong.

The women with whom the native is intimately associated are likely to be distinguished, impersonal, delicate, refined and subtly passionate. There is usually a danger of their exercising too strong an influence upon the life of the native, whether man or woman. Cardinal signs have an extraordinary power in determining the general horoscope, and unless the man's own important planets are equally strong, it is possible that women may sway his judgment to an undesirable extent. These women are not nearly as "good" in the old-fashioned, motherly sense of the word, as Cancer or Leo women. They are more attractive, more brilliant, but do not have the same solid qualities. Of course, they may be expected to possess talent, frequently artistic, and to live their own individual life even after marriage. This is not altogether a fortunate circumstance for the average man, who may either be henpecked or find his marriage little better than a new leaf of bachelorhood.

Mothers having children who have the Moon in Libra should do everything to inspire in them a feeling of pride and admiration; otherwise, regardless of the mother's devotion, such children can easily become indifferent and be attracted to other women who possess more charm or beauty.