The Moon and Pisces are peculiarly sympathetic. Taken by itself, there is great danger
that the person with this position may receive totally false impressions through the
senses. There is an excessive tendency to optimism and romanticism; Don Quixote
must have had the Moon in Pisces. Among real people we find it in the horoscopes of Shelley, Goethe, Petrarch and Stevenson. This position accounts for their extraordinary refusal to accept things as they are. The outside world came to them through such coloured glasses that everything appeared bathed in a luminous mist.

The reader will note however that of these persons, Goethe alone had also the scientific attitude, the sense of realism, and Goethe's greatness really consists in his ability to blend these totally opposite qualities of the mind. The explanation is that in his case, Saturn was square to Uranus, the latter planet being in the 3rd House; a square of Saturn and Mercury would have done equally well. But unless there be some such compensation, we do not find any power of realizing the facts of life with accuracy. The skeptical quality is absent. Cardinal Gibbons, for example, could not entertain any objection to his faith. Mabel Collins, similarly accepting the main Theosophical theory, weaves happy dreams. We do not find in her any philosophical interest in its tenets.

The great artist is always a great realist, however romantic he may be, and how-
ever idealistic, for beauty is but the garment of truth; and if there is no truth behind apparent beauty, be sure that your eyes have once more deceived you. Now the tendency of Pisces is always to present things in symbolic form; the veil between the gross and the subtle world is but a spider's web so far as Pisces is concerned, and this is what makes the sign so astoundingly psychic.

A great deal will depend upon the dignity of the Moon. If she has such good aspects as Mars trine or sextile to make her active, or if a favorable ray from Uranus or the Sun fall upon her, then she gives true vision. If she is afflicted, especially by Saturn, Neptune, Uranus, Mars or Jupiter, she is likely to bring the most diseased fancies to birth and to harbor the grossest illusions. In fact Pisces may be either the best or the worst of all the places of the Moon, but in view of what we have said, it appears that the tendency to illusion is so strong that, taken by itself, the position is not a good one in a world where capacity to look facts in the face is the principal asset of the masters of life. People can get into far more trouble through believing the best about everything than through believing the worst. A pleasant surprise can do no harm; an unpleasant one may upset one completely.

One of the most dangerous features of this position of the Moon is that the need to see everything through rose-tinted spectacles often drives the native to indulgence in drink or drugs, which temporarily renews the illusion that everything is beautiful. Any aspect of Neptune to the Moon will naturally accentuate this tendency. It must never be forgotten how closely allied are the temperamental qualities of-Neptune and Pisces.

Women with the Moon in this sign fill the above description even more closely than do men. It makes their romanticism-and to a certain extent their other-worldliness extraordinarily strong. Sometimes, like Lillie Langtry, they are able to turn these qualities to great advantage. In her case, though Neptune was in conjunction with the Moon, the sextile ofUranus and the square ofSaturn gave her balance. Without these aspects she might have been so self-sacrificing, generous and passive that she would have been the prey of every unscrupulous person with whom she came in touch.

The woman with whom the native is closely associated will be, as a rule, highly emotional, extremely unselfish, romantic, voluptuous, passionate and sometimes dreamy. They take love to the highest planes, and have the power of making them- selves appear of extravagant value in the eyes of the native. In the case of a man they will thus enable him to gain pleasure and happiness from their affection, but as a general rule they will not be of much help to him in his career. In a general way, the woman devotes herself to the man so completely that she has little care for anything in the world but his devotion. She may be however extremely useful to him by romantically inspiring him and making him happy.

Mothers having children who have the Moon in Pisces must avoid being so unselfish and "soft" in their attitude toward them as to unconsciously develop their weakest points and to undermine their Character and their Will-power.