The Moon in Taurus is in her exaltation; the sign tends to bring out the quiet and
reflective side of the Moon, and at the same time to steady her changeful nature. It is one of the best signs in which she can be found.
People with the Moon in this sign hold to their impressions with extreme obstinacy; they react slowly but with great vigor. They are almost as uncritical as the Moon in Aries type, but for totally different reasons. They remember accurately and
tenaciously, and they mould their actions for a long period on the original die. If any
fact is communicated to them ofa startling character, they manifest no excitement or distress. It sinks slowly into the mind, but instead of being held there for a long period without transmutation into motion-as we shall find happens when the Moon is in Cancer-a slow but purposeful decision with regard to that fact is under- taken, and unless executive power be entirely wanting owing to some affliction of Mars, action follows----steady, purposeful and relentless. It is very difficult to make such people change their minds. You cannot make a person with the Moon in Aries change his mind because before you speak to him, he has already acted on his impression and forgotten about it; but with Taurus the case is different. His action has been taken, and however foolish and wrong you may prove it to be, it is his action and he goes on with it.
When the Moon is in Aries, the best developed of the senses is usually sight; in Taurus, taste and touch are probably more important to the native. These people strongly resent interference with their ideas. They are so solidly impressed with what comes to them that they welcome only ideas which naturally cohere with the general Temperament. This of course tends to make the nature rather conservative and conventional.
Shakespeare had this position of the Moon, and in spite of his astounding genius
he gave little expression to new ideas; he expressed the accepted sentiments of his
times with extreme power and beauty, but he seemed incapable of seeing anything
wrong with the social system of his period. The same is true ofRossetti and Chatter-
ton, each of whom in his different way gave medievalism a new dress, without
changing its features. The same conventional attitude is found in Dumas,1 in Joseph
Chamberlain, in Arthur Balfour and in President Garfield. Although Chamberlain
was at first a radical, radicalism was conventional in Birmingham, which he represented. In the House of Commons he drifted to conservatism of a very steady kind.
It is not likely that any man with the Moon in this sign will break away from the
fundamental principles in which he was brought up. As an apparent exception we 0
have the case of Swedenborg; but here Uranus is within 1 of a conjunction of the Moon, the most upsetting circumstance that could possibly occur, Uranus being pre- eminently the planet of explosion. Yet even Swedenborg was not much more revolutionary than Virgil or Dante with regard to his ideas of Heaven and Hell; it was merely that he took them rather more seriously, a point of view that would naturally arise from the trine of Jupiter to that conjunction. There is no such breaking away from orthodoxy if one considers the matter philosophically, as in the case of even such a reformer as John Wesley. Where the native is a woman, so that the Moon refers also to the life itself, her presence in this sign still further increases the obstinacy of the Character, as is evident in the case of Queen Elizabeth I.
The women who influence the native will be domestic, faithful, and of strong, enduring passion. Even an artist like Rossetti had the love of a truly devoted wife. It does not follow, however, that the relations will always be fortunate. Rossetti's wife
died early. The curse of Shakespeare's life was Mary Fitton, but here again obstinacy was in itself the cause of the trouble; she treated him badly, but she could not leave him alone. In the case of Queen Elizabeth I we also find this curious clinging tendency; and though Mary Queen of Scots had no Taurus in her Disposition with regard to her male acquaintances, she had Taurus rising, and acted in an entirely Taurean manner toward her rival.
The dominion exercised upon the native by the women with whom he or she is
associated will always be due to this characteristic; they will always apply steady pressure, though it may often be only that their fidelity appeals to the native, and makes it
impossible for him to get rid of them.
Mothers having children with the Moon in Taurus must not try to dominate
their lives to such an extent as to rob them of their individuality, thus forcing them to turn to others for sympathy and understanding. Even though they may be most practical and devoted, they can easily arouse the stubbornness and antagonism of their children having the Moon in this sign.