VENUS in Taurus is in her own house and is therefore very strong; but the earthy quality of the sign has two effects which seem at first sight curiously incompatible. The action is drawn down to the physical plane we shall find but rare examples of "ideal love" or "platonic affection" in people with this position but also it is slow to start. People with Venus so placed, though they have enormous 
capacity for love, do not develop on the sex-plane until long after the average. Once the blossom flowers, it flowers magnificently. All the tenacity of the bull comes into play, and every hope may be entertained of settled happiness. 
At all times, however, the magnetism of the sign is manifest, and people with this position often present baffling mysteries to their admirers. They give all the physical signs of great passion and are perfectly aware of how well they are fitted both to inspire and to reciprocate devotion; yet they will not yield themselves until the right person arrives. When that happens, the surrender is often instant and the fidelity eternal. 
The same characteristics, transmuted to other planes, obtain there. There is often great amiability, though tact is rarely fine. Fortune in small matters is steady, but not sudden or capricious; and the artistic side of the native is likely to be solid, sensible, and free from erratic and hysterical manifestations. The word "domesticity," if it be extended to cover all the many qualities combined in Venus, gives a good idea of what is meant. Taurus is preeminently the sign of material form and tends to bring everything to operation on the physical plane. The sex instinct, when Venus is in this sign, is consequently very simple and natural, as direct and intelligible as the marriage service in the Church of England prayer-book. Selection is determined primarily by physical fitness; other considerations hardly apply.The native is particularly fond of comfort, and strives actively and persistently to create this in his environment.