VENUS IN AQUARIUS 
THE general characteristic which we have noticed with the other two 
airy signs still applies to Aquarius. There is, however, a very strong tendency to a development of the affections on humanitarian lines. 
It is rare to find domesticity ; nor is there any great tendency to in- tensity of passion. The plane of the affections is mostly spiritual and mental. Such love as exists has always the wings of the eagle and the head of the man. With this position of Venus, the religious and humanitarian instincts often take the place of those natural to the great mass of humanity. The founder of the Christian religion had Venus placed in this sign, and so had Brigham Young and Dr. Steiner. The humanitarian impulse is still visible, though in a perverted form, in the anarchist Vaillant; and the perversity is readily explained, since his Venus is squared by a rising Mars. 
In science we have the great names of Copernicus, Newton, and Nostradamus. It is very clear in these cases that the interest of the heart was cosmic, and could not be fettered by deep personal attachments. 
In the domain of the arts we find the names of Lord Byron and of Chopin. Both these men acquired considerable notoriety in the matter of their love affairs; but this fact must not mislead the reader. In both cases the intention was idealistic. And if, in their search for the rarest thing on earth, they fell from time to time into the hands of vampires, it is to be taken as confirming, not as refuting, our judgment of their quality. Their misfortune, indeed, is common. Unless Venus is extraordinarily well dignified, so as to re- move her operations altogether from the personal plane, the native 
is likely to be called unmoral. He or she may try innumerable experiments, all equally disastrous; but no blame should be attached to such good people. The intention is invariably ideal. One may go further and say that they are deserving of every sympathy, for Aquarius makes them very clear sighted. And, even when most under the dominion of some temporary illusion, the native is all the while aware that he has not gotten what he wants. 