IN this sign Venus is in her exaltation. The watery nature of the sign does not make her so voluptuous as we saw to be the case with Cancer and Scorpio. Pisces is too psychic for that to happen. Softness and tenderness are brought out strongly, but are expressed as an unequalled capacity for devotion and self-sacrifice. A very striking example of this is given in the relations of Sir Richard Burton with his wife. In all other respects his nature was fiery, arrogant and domineering; but he treated her with a chivalry which did not even succeed in getting itself understood or appreciated.
As a general rule, indeed, the affections are likely to be widely distributed. When art is concerned, this position seems to give the faculty of handling large groups of people with ease. This is evident in the cases of Michael Angelo, Zola, Dickens, Victor Hugo and, with slightly less lustre, Rosa Bonheur. The affections, generally speaking, are simple and natural. There is a calm kindliness 
of feeling towards humanity in general, and there is very little tendency to snobbery, none at all to arrogance. 
Possibly as a consequence of this, the native does not easily make enemies. On the other hand, he is likely in some measure to spoil his friends. This position does not excite in others that depth of emotion which leads to grand passions and great sacrifices. Relations with others seem to be taken too easily, and their devotion is not likely to develop, as it does often enough in the case of people far less calculated at the first sight to inspire the noblest sentiments. People with this position are usually devoted to their families. They not only love others, but care for and cherish them. Self-sacrifice is natural to the native, whenever his tender feelings are in question. 
There is a great deal of romance mingled with these feelings. The native dissolves himself into the beloved, making a true union, and the greatest sorrow that can be experienced by a person with this 
position is when the beloved fails to appreciate his devotion to the full. Venus in this sign is not particularly fastidious; she is too ready for the pleasure the yielding gives to others. In some respects this is the highest possible development of Venus. 