
The Sun is in some respects stronger in Capricornus than in any other sign except Leo. He enters it at his annual rebirth, his resurrection from the dead, and it is therefore a new beginning to his force. The earthy, saturnian and martial natures of the sign bring out the force of the Sun in the direction of practical energy. The capacity for hard work is the first characteristic which we observe in the Capricornus native. It is to be seen in such tremendous workers as Pasteur, Gladstone, Wallace, Sir Isaac Pitman and Sir Isaac Newton. The leaping nature of the Goat and the cardinal character of the sign also give the most tremendous power of initiative, a quality illustrated well enough by the people already mentioned. The Character is extremely noble, and Self-respect is one of its strongest qualities. It is to be remembered that the natural mundane position of Capricornus in the zodiac is the Midheaven. The saturnian influence of the sign gives caution, prudence and thrift, as well as great solidity and strength of moral character. The native is very serious in Disposition, with a strong sense of duty. These qualities may sometimes be exaggerated and become faults. Steadiness, foresight, trust- worthiness, fidelity and conscientiousness are nearly always present. In estimating the action of the Sun, due regard must of course be given to any afflictions, especially those by Mars or Uranus. Alexander VI had few of the qualities previously mentioned, but his Sun is squared by Uranus.

The constitution is usually of iron, capable of undergoing any degree of hardship, with great resisting power against disease. It is, therefore, next to Leo and Sagittarius, one of the best of all the signs for longevity. Capricornus governs the joints, particularly those of the knees, and has a general association with the bony system. The chief dangers to the native's health are in rheumatism and in the tendency to overindulgence in the appetites. He eats greedily of hot or spicy food, preferring it to any other. The saturnian tendency to melancholia is also a dangerous element in this position of the Sun. Occasionally the morbidity of appetite leads, from the creation of an abnormal thirst, to similar indiscretions in regard to liquor. This, however, must be taken as a secondary and derived condition. The fact that the worst drunkards are often found to have the Sun in Capricornus comes largely from the mental or physical depression caused by Saturn.