The natural sympathy between the Sun and Venus makes Taurus a happy habitation for the Sun. The earthy quality of the sign, moreover, tends to stabilize his influence, and its balanced nature lends still further dignity to the configuration. Taurus people are usually broad, sturdy and of iron constitution. Their vitality is great, but with a tendency to sluggishness; they are slow to start, but once in motion they gather momentum, and when well under way, nothing will ever stop them. In a word, they are weighty, using that word in its full mechanical sense. The Will is dominant and even obstinate, and the persistence and tenacity ofthe native are never in doubt. Gen- eral Grant is an excellent example of this position of the Sun.

Like other qualities, however, this tenacity may have its defects. The native is sometimes inclined to continue in a course which good judgment would see to be hopeless. Here we find in particular the devotees of lost causes. The reason for this is that, Taurus being under Venus, the affections are strongly implicated. As a corollary, one may say that these people, though they can never be driven, may easily be led. They respond readily to appeals to their better feelings; at the same time, to goad them is to rouse them to anger which may almost approximate madness.

The Bull-nature is still further brought out by a certain placidity and domesticity in all cases where the more active qualities are not aroused. There is a great wealth of affection in this sign, which is frequently the aftermath of passion. In their love affairs such people may begin with the vehemence of equinoctial gales, storm following storm.When this passes, the end comes not by breach or tragedy, but by the develop- ment ofwarm friendships. The Disposition is thus ideal for marriage.
The mental activity of Taurus people is, as a rule, not great. Their original ten- dency is to be conservative, but if once convinced of the necessity of a revolutionary course, they will then pursue it to the bitter end. Even if on any point they seem rad- ical, it is only accidental to the nature; on all fundamentals they are reactionary. Con- sider T. H. Huxley, for example; the scientific side of his nature committed him to the advocacy of evolution, which was at that time misunderstood in England to imply belief in atheism, anarchy and free love. Yet his philosophical writings are based upon such comparatively early authors as Hume and Berkeley, while his politi- cal writings are the most steadily conservative that can be imagined.

The general inertia of the nature will cause the native to acquiesce in most of the conventionalities customary to his environment, not because he believes that they are right (supposing him to be cross-examined on the subject), but because it would lead to trouble to ignore them. He would say frankly that he thought it did not matter very much what happened in so small a matter, and that it was best "to let sleeping dogs lie."

People with the Sun in Taurus are usually very practical. They are not liable to be led away by idealism and dreams. One may quote Shakespeare as the most steady- going, sensible poet that ever lived. It is his extraordinary common sense which has so endeared him to the Anglo-Saxon. Spencer, too, has the Sun in this sign, and his philosophy was based upon objective facts. Hence the name which he himself gave it-Synthetic Philosophy, as opposed to the analytic, which has held almost undis- puted sway since the beginning of the science.

In the human anatomy, Taurus is said to rule the base of the brain, the neck and shoulders, and the throat. People with the Sun in this position are, to some extent, liable to disorders in one of these places, but unless the Sun is badly afflicted there is not the same danger of ill health and of sudden death that we found in Aries; for while the Sun is not so brilliantly strong, he is more harmoniously placed, and his rays fall more softly.